Introduction
  The direct route of translating proprietary files from PSS/E or PSAT to Modelica is not the best way since the process is transient. Software vendor's file formats can be changed at any moment without notification or accountability.
  The best way to translate is to use a certified file exchange – a contract that requires complete accounting of model parameters. This begins with a hierarchical set of standards that describes how model parameters are stored. Certified standards also allow any software vendor to participate, and the model data is ubiquitous.
  The members of the European Network of Transmission System Operators (ENTSO-E) are presently the predominant creators of certified standards. Their work within the International Electrotechnical Commission (IEC) Technical Committee (TC) 57 and Work Group (WG) 13 allows comment and adjustment from other countries and creates an open process. Their proposed standards are documented in the Common Grid Model Exchange Standard (CGMES). The implementation of the standard can be certified through conformance testing by UCA International Users Group (UCAIug). CGMES provides the parameter descriptions within the Common Information Model (CIM)  ; therefore, we will use it as our beginning.
  CGMES is a set of standards that begins with XML. Extensible markup language (XML) is a standardized data structure like HTML without pre-defined tags. CIM refines the XML standard by creating and defining tags. XSLT is an XML document; therefore, you must understand the basics of XML to differentiate between the documents that depend on it.
  As you move from XML to CGMES CIM, you move from a generic xml data structure to CGMES power systems groupings. PSS/E adopts most if not all groupings from CGMES. OpenIPSL uses the same CGMES parameters within their components. Therefore, it is a direct map from the CGMES CIM to Modelica OpenIPSL components.
  The Resource Descriptor Framework (RDF) from W3C specifications is part of CGMES. RDF uses statements about resources in expressions of the form subject-predicate-object called triples. The subject denotes the resource, for example Synchronous Machine. The predicate denotes traits, for example Synchronous Machine q percent representing the coordinated reactive control in percent. The object denotes an aspect of the resource, for example 100 percent.
  The translation moves CGMES triples into Modelica parameters. While RDF can represent more complicated data structures, CGMES uses something like relational database associations. Therefore, we'll use the rules and techniques for relational databases to transform with XSLT.

